---
layout: single
title:  "Receiving artifacts from GCS"
sidebar:
  nav: guides
---

{% include toc %}

> This guide assumes that you have enabled the `artifactsRewrite` feature flag.
> See [Prerequisite configuration/setup](#prerequisite-configurationsetup).

This guide explains how to configure Spinnaker to trigger pipelines based on
changes in a [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/) (GCS)
bucket, and inject changed GCS objects as [artifacts](/reference/artifacts)
into a pipeline.

This functionality uses Google's
[Pub/Sub](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/overview) system for delivering
messages to Spinnaker, and must be configured to send messages to
Spinnaker's event bus as shown below.

# Prerequisite configuration/setup

If you or your Spinnaker admin have already configured Spinnaker to listen to
Pub/Sub messages from the GCS bucket you plan to publish objects to, you can
skip this section. _One Pub/Sub subscription can be used to trigger as many
independent Spinnaker pipelines as needed_.

You need the following:

* A billing enabled [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
  project](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/projects).

  This will be referred to as `$PROJECT` from now on.

* [`gcloud`](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/). Make sure to run `gcloud
  auth login` if you have installed `gcloud` for the first time.

* [A running Spinnaker instance](/setup/install/). This guide shows you how
  to configure an existing one to accept GCS messages, and download the files
  referenced by the messages in your pipelines.

* The `artifactsRewrite` feature flag enabled in Spinnaker. In
  `~/.hal/$DEPLOYMENT/profiles/settings-local.js` (where `$DEPLOYMENT` is
  typically `default`), add the line
  `window.spinnakerSettings.feature.artifactsRewrite = true;`.

At this point, we will configure Pub/Sub, and a GCS artifact account. The
Pub/Sub messages will be received by Spinnaker whenever a file is uploaded or
changed, and the artifact account will allow you to download these where
necessary.

## 1. Configure Google Pub/Sub for GCS

Follow the [Pub/Sub configuration](/setup/triggers/google/), in particular, pay
attention to the [GCS
section](/setup/triggers/google/#receiving-messages-from-google-cloud-storage-gcs)
since this is where we'll be publishing our files to.

## 2. Configure a GCS artifact account

Follow the [GCS artifact configuration](/setup/artifacts/gcs/).

## 3. Apply your configuration changes

Once the Pub/Sub and artifact changes have been made using Halyard, run

```bash
hal deploy apply
```

to apply them in Spinnaker.

# Using GCS artifacts in pipelines

We will need either an existing or a new pipeline that we want to be triggered
on changes to GCS artifacts. If you do not have a pipeline, create one as shown
below.

{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./create-pipeline.png"
  caption="You can create and edit pipelines in the __Pipelines__ tab of
  Spinnaker"
%}

## Configure the GCS trigger

Let's add a Pub/Sub trigger to run our pipeline.

{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./add-trigger.png"
%}

Next, we must configure the trigger: 

* __Type__ is "Pub/Sub".
* __Pub/Sub System Type__ is "Google".
* __Subscription Name__ depends on what you've configured in your Pub/Sub
  configuration using Halyard.
* __Attribute Constraints__ must be configured to include the pair `eventType`:
  `OBJECT_FINALIZE` (see the
  [docs](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/pubsub-notifications#events) for
  an explanation). 

{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./pubsub-config.png"
%}


## Configure the GCS artifact

Now we need to declare that the Pub/Sub trigger expects that a specific artifact
matching some criteria is available before the pipeline starts executing. In
doing so, you guarantee that an artifact matching your description is present in
the pipeline's execution context; if no artifact for this description is present,
the pipeline won't start.

To configure the artifact, go to the __Artifact Constraints__ dropdown for the
Pub/Sub trigger configuration, and select __"Define a new artifact..."__ to bring
up the __Expected Artifact__ form.

{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./expected-artifact.png"
%}

Enter a __Display Name__, or leave the autogenerated default. In the __Account__
dropdown, select your GCS account. Enter the fully qualified GCS path in the
__Object path__ field. Note: this path can be a regular expression. You can, for
example, set
the object path to be `gs://${BUCKET}/folder/.*` to trigger on any change to an
object inside `folder` in your `${BUCKET}`.

{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./expected-artifact.png"
  caption="`${BUCKET}` is a placeholder for the GCS bucket name that you have
  configured to receive Pub/Sub messages from above."
%}

## Test the pipeline

If you upload a file to a path matching your configured __Object path__,
the pipeline should execute. If it doesn't, you can start by checking the logs
in the __Echo__ service.
